README.md, before:

# Accounts Admin UI (MaterializeCSS)

A roles based account management system using [materialize css](http://materializecss.com/) for Meteor.

This is a fork of the [Bootstrap version](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3).

## Screenshots

List users:
![list users](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537096/33cee48c-7422-11e5-9384-e0267e496335.png)

Update users:
![update user](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537097/33cf7d84-7422-11e5-90c9-31c92099e71c.png)

New role:
![new role](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537095/33cc7ec2-7422-11e5-91c4-a35c8a2b7052.png)

**Table of Contents**

- [TODO](#todo)
- [History](#history)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Iron Router Integration](#iron-router-integration)
- [Roles Hierarchy](#roles-hierarchy)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## TODO

- ~~Implement UI to create/remove roles (currently done at Meteor.startup)~~ DONE
- Configurable fields
- Implement pagination (currently relies on search to find users)
- Write tests
- User impersonation (for admins)

## History
**Version:** 0.2.20
- Use RolesTree-specified profile filter criteria in client query.

**Version:** 0.2.19
- The beginning of t9n support.

**Version:** 0.2.18
- Fix bug preventing non-admins from assigning roles.
- Allow additional Session "userFilterCriteria" object to filter users

**Version:** 0.2.17
- Tighten up security. Only publish a few fields of Meteor.user .
- RolesTree: Add ability to configure additional fields to publish.

**Version:** 0.2.16
- RolesTree: Filter: also show users who don't have ANY role, as long as the
profileFilter matches.

**Version:** 0.2.15
- Fix publication so user can only see themselves and subordinates.

**Version:** 0.2.14
- Roles bootstrap (minor change)

**Version:** 0.2.13
- Roles bug fix

**Version:** 0.2.12
- fix a few bugs (by removing use of underscore _.each).
- Add template helper.
- Filter Meteor.users and Roles publications based on the roles that the user should be able to see.
- Update server-side methods to allow updates of users by others with more senior roles.

**Version:** 0.2.11
- Add Roles hierarchy functionality.

**Latest Version:** 0.2.10
- sort by name, username and then email.
- add display of username

**Version:** 0.2.9
- Use event handlers to trigger modals, rather than a single event binding (which prevented modals being triggered for newly-inserted DOM elements)

**Version:** 0.2.8
- Update readme with screenshots
- Fix minor UI bug with placeholder overlapping username

**Version:** 0.2.7
- materializecss port (forked from upstream here)
- meteor 0.9.0 package format updates

**Version:** 0.2.6
- Remove hard dependency to bootstrap-3 (so less-bootstrap-3 or similar can be used). (Thanks to [@johnm](https://github.com/johnm))
- Documentation updates
- Fixes [Issue #18](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3/issues/18)

**Version:** 0.2.5

- Bump roles version; v1.2.8 is Blaze-compatible (thanks to [@alanning](https://github.com/alanning)!)

**Version:** 0.2.4

- Support [changes made in Meteor 0.8.0-rc0](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/issues/1930)
- Fixes [Issue #7](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3/issues/7)
- Update to bootstrap-3.1.1

**Version:** 0.2.3

- Now supports changing usernames from admin interface (thanks to [@djkmiles](https://github.com/djkmiles)!)

**Version:** 0.2.2

- Fixed bugs due to fallout from removing bootstrap-modal

**Version:** 0.2.1

- Removed dependency to bootstrap-modal

**Version:** 0.2.0

- Added UI to create/remove roles

**Version:** 0.1.0

- Created a basic UI to find users, delete users, and modify roles.

## Quick Start

Set up a simple admin page

```sh
$ mrt create app
$ cd app
$ mrt add bootstrap-3		# or mrt add less-bootstrap-3
$ mrt add accounts-password
$ mrt add roles
$ mrt add accounts-ui-bootstrap-3
$ mrt add accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3
$ mrt remove autopublish
$ mrt remove insecure
```

**app.js**
```javascript
if (Meteor.isServer) {
	Meteor.startup(function () {
		// bootstrap the admin user if they exist -- You'll be replacing the id later
		if (Meteor.users.findOne("your_admin_user_id"))
			Roles.addUsersToRoles("your_admin_user_id", ['admin']);

		// create a couple of roles if they don't already exist (THESE ARE NOT NEEDED -- just for the demo)
		if(!Meteor.roles.findOne({name: "secret"}))
            Roles.createRole("secret");

        if(!Meteor.roles.findOne({name: "double-secret"}))
            Roles.createRole("double-secret");
	});
}

if (Meteor.isClient) {
	Template.adminTemplate.helpers({
		// check if user is an admin
		isAdminUser: function() {
			return Roles.userIsInRole(Meteor.user(), ['admin']);
		}
	})
}
```

**app.html**
```html
<head>
  <title>Accounts Admin</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="navbar navbar-default" role="navigation">
        <div class="navbar-header">
            <div class="navbar-header">
                <a class="navbar-brand" href="/">Accounts Admin</a>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="navbar-collapse collapse">
            <ul class="nav navbar-nav">  
            </ul>
            <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
            {{> loginButtons }}
            </ul>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="container">
		{{> adminTemplate}}
	</div>
</body>

<template name="adminTemplate">
	{{#if isAdminUser}}
		{{> accountsAdmin}}
	{{else}}
		Must be admin to see this...
	{{/if}}
</template>
```

After you edit app.js and app.html you need to create a new user and then set the 'admin' role to that user.

1. Go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and click on the "Sign In / Up" and create your user there.
2. In the browser console grab the user id from the user you just created Meteor.userId()
3. Copy the user id and paste it into to "your_admin_user_id" in app.js created above.
4. Restart meteor 

At this point you should see the UI.  Signout and add a few more users so you can play with the roles. You can add and 
remove roles all through the UI.

## Iron Router Integration

This tool plays nice with Iron Router package, add to following configuration to your router.
Or take a look at this [working example](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3-demo).

**router.js**
```javascript
Router.configure({
	layoutTemplate: 'layout'
});

Router.map(function() {
	this.route('home', {
		path: '/',
		template: 'home'
	});

	this.route('admin', {
		path:'/admin',
		template: 'accountsAdmin',
		onBeforeAction: function() {
			if (Meteor.loggingIn()) {
                this.render(this.loadingTemplate);
            } else if(!Roles.userIsInRole(Meteor.user(), ['admin'])) {
                console.log('redirecting');
                this.redirect('/');
            }
		}
	});
});
```

## Roles Hierarchy

In your settings.json, you can define a hierarchy of roles:

```json
{
  "public": {
    "accountsAdmin" : {
      "rolesHierarchy": {
        "roleName": "admin",
        "subordinates": [
          {
            "roleName": "user-admin",
            "subordinates": [
              {
                "roleName": "schoolAdmin",
                "subordinates": [
                  {
                    "roleName": "teacher",
                    "subordinates": [
                      {"roleName": "student",
                       // a student can see the following fields
                       visibleUserFields: {"_id":1,"username": 1,"profile.name": 1,"roles": 1}
                      }
                    ],
                    // new users created by a teacher get the student role
                    "defaultNewUserRoles":["student"],

                    // new users created by a teacher get the teacher's profile.school and profile.classId
                    "profileFilters":["school","classId"]

                    // a teacher can see everything a student can see, also email addresses
                    visibleUserFields: {"emails": 1}
                  }
                ],
                "profileFilters":["school"]
              }
            ],
            "defaultNewUserRoles":["teacher"]

          }
        ],
        "defaultNewUserRoles":["teacher"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

A global object, RolesTree, allows you to query the hierarchy. E.g.

```js
if (RolesTree.getRoleSubordinate("admin","student")) {
  console.log("admin has a student subordinate");
}

var subordinateRoles = RolesTree.getAllSubordinatesAsArray("admin");
// ["user-admin","schoolAdmin","teacher","student"]

var roleObj = findRoleInHierarchy("teacher");
// {roleName: "teacher",
// subordinates: [
//   {roleName: "student"}
// ],
// defaultNewUserRoles:["student"],
// profileFilters:["school","classId"]}


var mySubordinates = RolesTree.getAllMySubordinatesAsArray(Meteor.userId())
// an array of role names whose roles are below my own roles (union).

var canIAdminister = RolesTree.isUserCanAdministerRole(Meteor.userId(),"teacher");
// true if I have the role "admin", "user-admin" or "schoolAdmin"; false otherwise.

var canIAdminister = RolesTree.isUserCanAdministerUser(Meteor.userId(),"baddeadbeef");
// true if the user with id "baddeadbeef" has any role that is a subordinate role of any of my own roles.


```

## Contributing

If you've got a change you think would benefit the community send me a pull request.

**Contributors**
- [@djkmiles](https://github.com/djkmiles)
- [@alanning](https://github.com/alanning)
- [@johnm](https://github.com/johnm)

Commit message:

- refactor "copy profile filter" function to RolesTree. - Fix bug where profile fields were not being used as criteria.

README.md, after:

# Accounts Admin UI (MaterializeCSS)

A roles based account management system using [materialize css](http://materializecss.com/) for Meteor.

This is a fork of the [Bootstrap version](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3).

## Screenshots

List users:
![list users](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537096/33cee48c-7422-11e5-9384-e0267e496335.png)

Update users:
![update user](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537097/33cf7d84-7422-11e5-90c9-31c92099e71c.png)

New role:
![new role](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1751645/10537095/33cc7ec2-7422-11e5-91c4-a35c8a2b7052.png)

**Table of Contents**

- [TODO](#todo)
- [History](#history)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Iron Router Integration](#iron-router-integration)
- [Roles Hierarchy](#roles-hierarchy)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## TODO

- ~~Implement UI to create/remove roles (currently done at Meteor.startup)~~ DONE
- Configurable fields
- Implement pagination (currently relies on search to find users)
- Write tests
- User impersonation (for admins)

## History

**Version:** 0.2.21
- move "copy profile filter" function to RolesTree.
- Fix bug where profile fields were not being used as criteria.

**Version:** 0.2.20
- Use RolesTree-specified profile filter criteria in client query.

**Version:** 0.2.19
- The beginning of t9n support.

**Version:** 0.2.18
- Fix bug preventing non-admins from assigning roles.
- Allow additional Session "userFilterCriteria" object to filter users

**Version:** 0.2.17
- Tighten up security. Only publish a few fields of Meteor.user .
- RolesTree: Add ability to configure additional fields to publish.

**Version:** 0.2.16
- RolesTree: Filter: also show users who don't have ANY role, as long as the
profileFilter matches.

**Version:** 0.2.15
- Fix publication so user can only see themselves and subordinates.

**Version:** 0.2.14
- Roles bootstrap (minor change)

**Version:** 0.2.13
- Roles bug fix

**Version:** 0.2.12
- fix a few bugs (by removing use of underscore _.each).
- Add template helper.
- Filter Meteor.users and Roles publications based on the roles that the user should be able to see.
- Update server-side methods to allow updates of users by others with more senior roles.

**Version:** 0.2.11
- Add Roles hierarchy functionality.

**Latest Version:** 0.2.10
- sort by name, username and then email.
- add display of username

**Version:** 0.2.9
- Use event handlers to trigger modals, rather than a single event binding (which prevented modals being triggered for newly-inserted DOM elements)

**Version:** 0.2.8
- Update readme with screenshots
- Fix minor UI bug with placeholder overlapping username

**Version:** 0.2.7
- materializecss port (forked from upstream here)
- meteor 0.9.0 package format updates

**Version:** 0.2.6
- Remove hard dependency to bootstrap-3 (so less-bootstrap-3 or similar can be used). (Thanks to [@johnm](https://github.com/johnm))
- Documentation updates
- Fixes [Issue #18](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3/issues/18)

**Version:** 0.2.5

- Bump roles version; v1.2.8 is Blaze-compatible (thanks to [@alanning](https://github.com/alanning)!)

**Version:** 0.2.4

- Support [changes made in Meteor 0.8.0-rc0](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/issues/1930)
- Fixes [Issue #7](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3/issues/7)
- Update to bootstrap-3.1.1

**Version:** 0.2.3

- Now supports changing usernames from admin interface (thanks to [@djkmiles](https://github.com/djkmiles)!)

**Version:** 0.2.2

- Fixed bugs due to fallout from removing bootstrap-modal

**Version:** 0.2.1

- Removed dependency to bootstrap-modal

**Version:** 0.2.0

- Added UI to create/remove roles

**Version:** 0.1.0

- Created a basic UI to find users, delete users, and modify roles.

## Quick Start

Set up a simple admin page

```sh
$ mrt create app
$ cd app
$ mrt add bootstrap-3		# or mrt add less-bootstrap-3
$ mrt add accounts-password
$ mrt add roles
$ mrt add accounts-ui-bootstrap-3
$ mrt add accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3
$ mrt remove autopublish
$ mrt remove insecure
```

**app.js**
```javascript
if (Meteor.isServer) {
	Meteor.startup(function () {
		// bootstrap the admin user if they exist -- You'll be replacing the id later
		if (Meteor.users.findOne("your_admin_user_id"))
			Roles.addUsersToRoles("your_admin_user_id", ['admin']);

		// create a couple of roles if they don't already exist (THESE ARE NOT NEEDED -- just for the demo)
		if(!Meteor.roles.findOne({name: "secret"}))
            Roles.createRole("secret");

        if(!Meteor.roles.findOne({name: "double-secret"}))
            Roles.createRole("double-secret");
	});
}

if (Meteor.isClient) {
	Template.adminTemplate.helpers({
		// check if user is an admin
		isAdminUser: function() {
			return Roles.userIsInRole(Meteor.user(), ['admin']);
		}
	})
}
```

**app.html**
```html
<head>
  <title>Accounts Admin</title>
</head>

<body>
	<div class="navbar navbar-default" role="navigation">
        <div class="navbar-header">
            <div class="navbar-header">
                <a class="navbar-brand" href="/">Accounts Admin</a>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div class="navbar-collapse collapse">
            <ul class="nav navbar-nav">  
            </ul>
            <ul class="nav navbar-nav navbar-right">
            {{> loginButtons }}
            </ul>
        </div>
    </div>
    <div class="container">
		{{> adminTemplate}}
	</div>
</body>

<template name="adminTemplate">
	{{#if isAdminUser}}
		{{> accountsAdmin}}
	{{else}}
		Must be admin to see this...
	{{/if}}
</template>
```

After you edit app.js and app.html you need to create a new user and then set the 'admin' role to that user.

1. Go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and click on the "Sign In / Up" and create your user there.
2. In the browser console grab the user id from the user you just created Meteor.userId()
3. Copy the user id and paste it into to "your_admin_user_id" in app.js created above.
4. Restart meteor 

At this point you should see the UI.  Signout and add a few more users so you can play with the roles. You can add and 
remove roles all through the UI.

## Iron Router Integration

This tool plays nice with Iron Router package, add to following configuration to your router.
Or take a look at this [working example](https://github.com/hharnisc/meteor-accounts-admin-ui-bootstrap-3-demo).

**router.js**
```javascript
Router.configure({
	layoutTemplate: 'layout'
});

Router.map(function() {
	this.route('home', {
		path: '/',
		template: 'home'
	});

	this.route('admin', {
		path:'/admin',
		template: 'accountsAdmin',
		onBeforeAction: function() {
			if (Meteor.loggingIn()) {
                this.render(this.loadingTemplate);
            } else if(!Roles.userIsInRole(Meteor.user(), ['admin'])) {
                console.log('redirecting');
                this.redirect('/');
            }
		}
	});
});
```

## Roles Hierarchy

In your settings.json, you can define a hierarchy of roles:

```json
{
  "public": {
    "accountsAdmin" : {
      "rolesHierarchy": {
        "roleName": "admin",
        "subordinates": [
          {
            "roleName": "user-admin",
            "subordinates": [
              {
                "roleName": "schoolAdmin",
                "subordinates": [
                  {
                    "roleName": "teacher",
                    "subordinates": [
                      {"roleName": "student",
                       // a student can see the following fields
                       visibleUserFields: {"_id":1,"username": 1,"profile.name": 1,"roles": 1}
                      }
                    ],
                    // new users created by a teacher get the student role
                    "defaultNewUserRoles":["student"],

                    // new users created by a teacher get the teacher's profile.school and profile.classId
                    "profileFilters":["school","classId"]

                    // a teacher can see everything a student can see, also email addresses
                    visibleUserFields: {"emails": 1}
                  }
                ],
                "profileFilters":["school"]
              }
            ],
            "defaultNewUserRoles":["teacher"]

          }
        ],
        "defaultNewUserRoles":["teacher"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

A global object, RolesTree, allows you to query the hierarchy. E.g.

```js
if (RolesTree.getRoleSubordinate("admin","student")) {
  console.log("admin has a student subordinate");
}

var subordinateRoles = RolesTree.getAllSubordinatesAsArray("admin");
// ["user-admin","schoolAdmin","teacher","student"]

var roleObj = findRoleInHierarchy("teacher");
// {roleName: "teacher",
// subordinates: [
//   {roleName: "student"}
// ],
// defaultNewUserRoles:["student"],
// profileFilters:["school","classId"]}


var mySubordinates = RolesTree.getAllMySubordinatesAsArray(Meteor.userId())
// an array of role names whose roles are below my own roles (union).

var canIAdminister = RolesTree.isUserCanAdministerRole(Meteor.userId(),"teacher");
// true if I have the role "admin", "user-admin" or "schoolAdmin"; false otherwise.

var canIAdminister = RolesTree.isUserCanAdministerUser(Meteor.userId(),"baddeadbeef");
// true if the user with id "baddeadbeef" has any role that is a subordinate role of any of my own roles.


```

## Contributing

If you've got a change you think would benefit the community send me a pull request.

**Contributors**
- [@djkmiles](https://github.com/djkmiles)
- [@alanning](https://github.com/alanning)
- [@johnm](https://github.com/johnm)
